Title: GTEvaluator README
Author: Arnaud Felten, Laurent Guillier
Affiliation: Food Safety Laboratory – ANSES Maisons Alfort (France)

You can find the latest version of the tool at 
https://github.com/afelten-Anses/GTEvaluator-1.0

HTML and pdf user technical documentation are available in the 'docs/' directory.

A sample dataset to test the workflow is available in the 'dataset/' directory.


GTEvaluator
========

GTEvaluator (GenoTargetFinder) is a workflow able to select the most specific and sensitive markers from a list of suitable markers and whole genomic sequencing data.

GTEvaluator is composed of 3 scripts written in python :

 * GTEvaluator_matrixMaker matchs targets against sequences and makes a matrix table with 1 if the target is present, 0 otherwise;

 * GTEvaluator_statistic computes specificity and sensitivity for each target and variant from matrix;

 * GTEvaluator is a driver script, it runs consecutively GTEvaluator_matrixMaker and GTEvaluator_statistic.

Each script can be run separately.


Quick Start
===========

## run it on Linux/Mac OS X system

Simply run the command in the 'src/' directory :

	 ./GTEvaluator

or :
	
	./GTEvaluator_matrixMaker

or :

	./GTEvaluator_statistic
	

We recommend to set scripts in your $PATH variable :

	export PATH=$PATH:src/


Dependencies
============

GTEvaluator needs python 2.7 (tested with 2.7.6), and the following librarires are require :

* [Biopython](http://biopython.org/wiki/Download)
* [Scipy](http://www.scipy.org/scipylib/download.html)

GTEvaluator requires 'fuzznuc' from EMBOSS to match targets against sequences. You can download EMBOSS programs here :

http://emboss.sourceforge.net/download/

GTEvaluator was tested with EMBOSS 6.6.0.0.


GTEvaluator Parameters
===================

##  GTEvaluator_matrixMaker parameters

 * '-i': genomes directory list with servovar name separated by tabular. See 'test_dataset/Bacillus_genomes.txt' for example.
 * '-p': target TSV file with the target name in column 1 and the target sequence in column 2. For primers, the forward sequence must be in the column 2 and the reverse seqeunce in the column 3 (none for target). See 'test_dataset/Bacillus_targets.tsv' for example.
 * '-m': primers forward and reverse max distance ['1400']
 * '-T': maximum number of threads to use ['1']
 * '-o': output name ['output']
 * '--trim': number of nucleotides to trim at 5' ['0']

##  GTEvaluator_statistic parameter

 * '-i': matrix file generated by 'GTEvaluator_matrixMaker'
 * '-o': output prefix name ['output']
 * '--CiMin': minimum confidence value ['0.025']
 * '--CiMax': maximum confidence value ['0.975']

'GTEvaluator' script combines 'GTEvaluator_matrixMaker' and 'GTEvaluator_statistic' parameters.


GTEvaluator programs
=================

'GTEvaluator_matrixMaker' uses 'fuzznuc' to match targets against sequences, you must be found it in your $PATH.

'GTEvaluator' runs 'GTEvaluator_matrixMaker' and 'GTEvaluator_matrixMaker', so these both scripts must be found it in your $PATH.


Ouputs
======

##  GTEvaluator_matrixMaker output

GTEvaluator_matrixMaker generates a tabular file, its 1st column contain the genome file name and the 2nd contain the subgroup name (ex: subtype, serovar...) of the genome. The other columns represent the presence ('1') or the abscence ('0') of each target.

##  GTEvaluator_statistic output

GTEvaluator_statistic generates graphicals outputs. For each subgroup, a plot represents the sensitivity and the specificity of all target. The correspondence between target name and point number is writing in the GTEvaluator_statistic tab output. If the number of subgroups are lower than 6, a global plot is generated (all targets for all groups).

The other type of output is a tabular file. For each subgroup and each target, the sensitivity, the specificity, the statistical distance and the confidence interval are computed. Targets are ordered by distance.  


GTEvaluator test
=============

The workflow can be tested with the dataset included in the 'dataset' directory.

After setting scripts in $PATH, go to 'test_dataset/' directory :

	cd test_dataset/

GTEvaluator_matrixMaker test :

	../src/GTEvaluator_matrixMaker -i Bacillus_genomes.txt -p Bacillus_targets.tsv -o matrix_test.tsv

GTEvaluator_statistic test :

	../src/GTEvaluator_statistic -i matrix_test.tsv -o test

Or directly the GTEvaluator test :

	../src/GTEvaluator -i Bacillus_genomes.txt -p Bacillus_targets.tsv -o test
		 	
